Mobile app development is the act or process by which a mobile app is developed for mobile devices, such as personal digital assistants, enterprise digital assistants or mobile phones. These applications can be pre-installed on phones during manufacturing platforms, or delivered as web applications using server-side or client-side processing (e.g., JavaScript) to provide an "application-like" experience within a Web browser. Application software developers also must consider a long array of screen sizes, hardware specifications, and configurations because of intense competition in mobile software and changes within each of the platforms. Mobile app development has been steadily growing, in revenues and jobs created. A 2013 analyst report estimates there are 529,000 direct app economy jobs within the EU 28 members, 60% of which are mobile app developers.

The two operating systems dominating the market are: -

######(yahan android and iOS ki photo laga diyo)



There are multiple mobile app technologies that are widely used for a specific platform or for cross-platform app development. The four major programming languages that are largely used for mobile app development are –

1. Swift 
If you are building something specific for Apple products, Swift is the language to seek. It has advanced features with minimal coding that can be easily maintained.

2. C++ 
It forms the simplistic base for most programming languages and possesses the power to create dynamic apps. The simple and effective compiler based approach makes it a versatile tool that can be used for multiple platforms. Its sister language, Objective-C, was earlier used for app development in Apple systems.

3. Java 
This object-oriented programming language is the official language for Android development. This language is easy to handle and many open source libraries are made available for users to choose from.

4. HTML5 
There is no better technology to use than HTML5 if your organization is looking at developing web-frontend applications for mobile devices.
